README.md, before:

# pyfakefs
pyfakefs implements a fake file system that mocks the Python file system modules.
Using pyfakefs, your tests operate on a fake file system in memory without
touching the real disk.  The software under test requires no modification to
work with pyfakefs.

pyfakefs works with Linux, Windows and MacOS.
Auto-generated documentation for the current version can be found [here](http://jmcgeheeiv.github.io/pyfakefs/).
For an overview over changes in last versions of pyfakefs look [here](CHANGES.md).

## Usage
There are two approaches to implementing tests using pyfakefs.

The first method is to allow pyfakefs to automatically find all real file functions and modules, and stub these out with the fake file system functions and modules.  This is explained in the [usage tutorial](http://github.com/jmcgeheeiv/pyfakefs/wiki/Tutorial)
and demonstrated by `example.py` and `example_test.py`.

The other approach is to do the patching yourself using `mock.patch()`:

```python
import pyfakefs.fake_filesystem as fake_fs

# Create a faked file system
fs = fake_fs.FakeFilesystem()

# Do some setup on the faked file system
fs.CreateFile('/var/data/xx1.txt')
fs.CreateFile('/var/data/xx2.txt')

# Replace some built-in file system related modules you use with faked ones

# Assuming you are using the mock library to ... mock things
try:
    from unittest.mock import patch  # In Python 3, mock is built-in
except ImportError:
    from mock import patch  # Python 2

import pyfakefs.fake_filesystem_glob as fake_glob

# Note that this fake module is based on the fake fs you just created
glob = fake_glob.FakeGlobModule(fs)
with patch('mymodule.glob', glob):
    print(glob.glob('/var/data/xx*'))
```

## Continuous Integration

pyfakefs is automatically tested with Python 2.6 and above, and it is currently
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jmcgeheeiv/pyfakefs.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/jmcgeheeiv/pyfakefs).

See [Travis-CI](http://travis-ci.org) for
[test results for each Python version](https://travis-ci.org/jmcgeheeiv/pyfakefs).

## Installation

### Compatibility
pyfakefs works with Python 2.6 and above, on Linux, Windows and OSX (MacOS).

pyfakefs requires [mox3](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mox3).

pyfakefs works with [PyTest](doc.pytest.org) version 2.8.6 or above.

### PyPi
[pyfakefs is available on PyPi](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyfakefs/).

## History
pyfakefs.py was initially developed at Google by Mike Bland as a modest fake
implementation of core Python modules.  It was introduced to all of Google
in September 2006. Since then, it has been enhanced to extend its
functionality and usefulness.  At Google alone, pyfakefs is used in over 2,000
Python tests.

Google released pyfakefs to the public in 2011 as Google Code project
[pyfakefs](http://code.google.com/p/pyfakefs/).

Fork
[jmcgeheeiv-pyfakefs](http://code.google.com/p/jmcgeheeiv-pyfakefs/)
added a [usage tutorial](http://github.com/jmcgeheeiv/pyfakefs/wiki/Tutorial),
direct support for [unittest](http://docs.python.org/2/library/unittest.html)
and [doctest](http://docs.python.org/2/library/doctest.html).

Fork
[shiffdane-jmcgeheeiv-pyfakefs](http://code.google.com/p/shiffdane-jmcgeheeiv-pyfakefs/)
added further corrections.

After the [shutdown of Google Code was announced,](http://google-opensource.blogspot.com/2015/03/farewell-to-google-code.html)
John McGehee merged all three Google Code projects together here on GitHub where an
enthusiastic community actively maintains and extends pyfakefs.

Commit message:

Added missing version hints
- made shutil.disk_uage only available for Python >= 3.3

README.md, after:

# pyfakefs
pyfakefs implements a fake file system that mocks the Python file system modules.
Using pyfakefs, your tests operate on a fake file system in memory without
touching the real disk.  The software under test requires no modification to
work with pyfakefs.

pyfakefs works with Linux, Windows and MacOS. 

The current pyfakfs API is referenced in the [auto-generated documentation](http://jmcgeheeiv.github.io/pyfakefs/).
A list of changes in the latest versions can be found in the [Release Notes](CHANGES.md).

## Usage
There are two approaches to implementing tests using pyfakefs.

The first method is to allow pyfakefs to automatically find all real file functions and modules, and stub these out with the fake file system functions and modules.  This is explained in the [usage tutorial](http://github.com/jmcgeheeiv/pyfakefs/wiki/Tutorial)
and demonstrated by `example.py` and `example_test.py`.

The other approach is to do the patching yourself using `mock.patch()`:

```python
import pyfakefs.fake_filesystem as fake_fs

# Create a faked file system
fs = fake_fs.FakeFilesystem()

# Do some setup on the faked file system
fs.CreateFile('/var/data/xx1.txt')
fs.CreateFile('/var/data/xx2.txt')

# Replace some built-in file system related modules you use with faked ones

# Assuming you are using the mock library to ... mock things
try:
    from unittest.mock import patch  # In Python 3, mock is built-in
except ImportError:
    from mock import patch  # Python 2

import pyfakefs.fake_filesystem_glob as fake_glob

# Note that this fake module is based on the fake fs you just created
glob = fake_glob.FakeGlobModule(fs)
with patch('mymodule.glob', glob):
    print(glob.glob('/var/data/xx*'))
```

## Continuous Integration

pyfakefs is automatically tested with Python 2.6 and above, and it is currently
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jmcgeheeiv/pyfakefs.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/jmcgeheeiv/pyfakefs).

See [Travis-CI](http://travis-ci.org) for
[test results for each Python version](https://travis-ci.org/jmcgeheeiv/pyfakefs).

## Installation

### Compatibility
pyfakefs works with Python 2.6 and above, on Linux, Windows and OSX (MacOS).

pyfakefs requires [mox3](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mox3).

pyfakefs works with [PyTest](doc.pytest.org) version 2.8.6 or above.

### PyPi
[pyfakefs is available on PyPi](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyfakefs/).

## History
pyfakefs.py was initially developed at Google by Mike Bland as a modest fake
implementation of core Python modules.  It was introduced to all of Google
in September 2006. Since then, it has been enhanced to extend its
functionality and usefulness.  At Google alone, pyfakefs is used in over 2,000
Python tests.

Google released pyfakefs to the public in 2011 as Google Code project
[pyfakefs](http://code.google.com/p/pyfakefs/).

Fork
[jmcgeheeiv-pyfakefs](http://code.google.com/p/jmcgeheeiv-pyfakefs/)
added a [usage tutorial](http://github.com/jmcgeheeiv/pyfakefs/wiki/Tutorial),
direct support for [unittest](http://docs.python.org/2/library/unittest.html)
and [doctest](http://docs.python.org/2/library/doctest.html).

Fork
[shiffdane-jmcgeheeiv-pyfakefs](http://code.google.com/p/shiffdane-jmcgeheeiv-pyfakefs/)
added further corrections.

After the [shutdown of Google Code was announced,](http://google-opensource.blogspot.com/2015/03/farewell-to-google-code.html)
John McGehee merged all three Google Code projects together here on GitHub where an
enthusiastic community actively maintains and extends pyfakefs.
